# Surf-Spot-Website

This is an independently designed webapp utilizing a React JS frontend and a Flask backend. For storage, a MySQL database is being used. As of now, the current functionality is that a user can navigate to the site, enter a NOAA buoy station ID or find nearby buoys using their current location. Once they enter or pick their buoy, they can then see the current data that is being displayed from that buoy and toggle between imperial and metric system. Most recently, a user authenication system has been put in place using Flask-Login. With the newly added login page, they can log in and currently only do the same thing an anonymous user is doing.

In order to get the list of buoys off the NOAA website, BeautifulSoup was used to scrape the data from the website and gather the station ID, name, and coordinates. From there, all of the stations were stored in a table in the MySQL database. In order to calculate the closest buoys to a particular location, the haversine formula was used. This is a formula that allows one to find the distance between two coordinates on a sphere. Given a current coordinate, all buoys within a 5% range of the original buoy are calculated and if the list is too small, then the next 5% range is calculated and so on.

As of now, this is a work in progress and the plan is to turn this into a fully functioning website that will hopefully serve users around the world. The next steps are first to create a "new user page" so they can create an account. After that, create functionality to allow users to create surf spots and select which buoys they want associated with those spots. Along with that, users will be able to enter parameters associated with their surf spot allowing them to determine whether the data from the buoy match close enough the desired parameters which in turn will allow them to decide whether they should go surfing or not. The next functionality after that is the user will be able to save conditions from a specific day and score how good the waves were. This will give them a running log of how conditions based on the buoy data actually ended up being that day. The final functionality to add once there is a sufficient amount of users is to implement a machine learning model which will be able to determine what the best surf spot may be that day given a users list of surf spots.
